was more sort of a close-knit fraternity. There
weren't a whole lot of you guys, by the way, you
know. No. That you had a chance probably to know
everyone and much more camaraderie existed. Do
you feel as you got towards the end of your career
that somehow or another that oceanography became
more specialized and more impersonal? Well, it
became
in one way more specialized and more fragmented
And then the sheer bulk of people that were
involved necessarily meant less intimate
associations with the few that were in the field in
the early days. And in the early days, much of the
contacts would actually be some Europeans. And
Helen Hansen was through here early on. at Grand,
and a number of people in the early days. And before
Tommy Thompson built the laboratory, that's why
he toured Europe to get an idea of what was going on
in Europe. And of course, he, being a true
extrovert, knew people all over
the world. In your opinion, and sort of this
particularly working in the north, which, you
know, what you've done the most of, what nations
did you particularly sort of admire in terms of
their oceanographic ventures, besides
ourselves? Well, of course, the Norwegians have
been tremendous in the field. It started out with
the dynamic meteorology, so that we had... And
Anson, and Spadrup,
Mosby, a number of people there early on that were
involved. And certainly the dynamic part of it,
Ekman and Bjerkenes and that group. started out
and the same fluid dynamics applies to the ocean as
does the atmosphere in different ways. But these
people were very important. The Japanese, of
course, have been a long time involved in it. They
get mostly from the Outside of Hidaka, who was over
here, spent some time with us, and Uta, and some of
the others. They're mostly, a great many of them
were involved in the fisheries, which is their
lifeblood, as far as the ocean is concerned.
They've sort of lived off of the ocean. We've had
good contacts, in association with the
Canadians. This last year, I was up to the to an
affair honoring the physical oceanographers of
Canada, the founding sort of physical
oceanographers, in a way, of Canada. And we had
Tully from the West Coast, Bill Cameron, Hatchie
from the East Coast, and Picard, who came over
after the war from England to Canada.
So just where I've worked, a lot of it has been with
Canadians from
time to time, both on the East Coast and the West
Coast. Now, I hate to ask you to hazard
predictions. I realize that's always not kosher.
But I'd like to sort of wind the interview down with
a series of questions that students would like to
ask you primarily.
What do you think was the single most important
development in oceanography while you were
involved in it during your long 40-odd year span?
That is an exceedingly difficult question
to answer. And
I wouldn't look at a single development as much as a
in some ways, a unification of the field.
And I think a lot of this is sort of expressed in the
book on the oceans. And I think that
these sub-disciplines, although they
contribute really to the understanding The final
use that we make of those is going to require the
cooperation of people of different disciplines.
This is still hard to get across in this present
day. But I think it doesn't mean that people have to
be experts in all the different areas, because no
one can. But at least there should be free
communication from one group to another. There's
far too much effort that has been spent on pursuing
things that, from another viewpoint, would have
been perfectly illogical.
So I think that, of course, there's no question
about
the advance in the technology here. And I think in
some ways the early days were a little bit like this
skipper trying to get to the iceberg.
So we've come a long ways in that respect. Was there
any single amazing discovery in oceanography
that seemed to amaze you the most? in your career,
anything that took you simply off balance?
I don't think that I was built to be caught too much
by surprise.
There's been a lot of things that I've really
appreciated that's come along, and the great
developments and strides that have been been made
here. But I think a lot of the sort of big strides
have been from a certain amount of group effort.
And of course, with the increasing number of
people, you don't see the ones that particularly
stand out head and shoulders above all others.
They're based on a fairly sound foundation, and so
much of it has been in the nature of this
cooperative work, even though some of them don't
speak to each other yet. That's always been a
problem.
Now, excuse me. Suppose you were simply to name one
thing in your career that you thought you had
enjoyed the most in oceanography. What would you
choose?
I've never worked on a job yet that I couldn't find
some satisfaction in doing and some challenge
all the way from my Piling lumber to theoretical
problems. It's always been interesting to me.
And it would be hard for me to say, well, now, just
what I would like to go out and do. Now, what I'm
doing at the moment is trying to... round up a
little bit more on the circulation of water
properties in Puget Sound that I've been looking
at since the early 30s out in the Sound, a little bit
before. And if we look at the ship canal problem.
So it's
hard to say.
to pick out the real highlights. I really
appreciate the efforts that were put in by some
very dedicated people that came out of a
cooperation when we were in the emergency during
the war, World War II, that really brought an awful
lot of people together. And I think above some of
the personal differences because there were an
awful lot of personal differences in this group
but i really think that they established then a a
very good foundation for the
future in oceanography and i think we can see the
results of that that goes right back into the 40s
right up this uh present time. We're still
enjoying some of the fruits of the efforts of some
of these dedicated individuals.
I take it that you would not change careers if you
had to do all over again. You would not remain with
chemistry. You'd go to oceanography.
Well, there's still chemistry in oceanography,
although I haven't. that I haven't done any
legitimate chemistry for a long time. It's one of
the things that we started to do on the jobs I'd
never finished. At Woods' home, we thought if the
situation deteriorated too much, we'd no longer
be able to get our standard water from Copenhagen,
and so we made up our own at Woods Hole. I was
instrumental in going out on the soil on that and
collecting up the water and bottling it up and so
on, running some tests, which I never finished all
the tests because the things got under control
before it was necessary to push that. than a
routine job. But I'm still concerned with the
interaction of the physical and the biological in
the water system, which is a problem that is far
from being solved. It's very, very complex. And so
I never looked a little bit at the Columbia River
affluent at sea.
been involved in that. But it's hard to pick out any
one thing. Or I don't think that I have any regret
for the different steps I've taken over the years.
Is there anything else you'd like to add to the
tape?
Well, I still think that anyone that is going ahead
in science owes it to himself to be fairly broadly
based, not that he is going to be an expert in any
particular, in more than one particular facet.
But he certainly wants to have an appreciation of
the interaction of his sub-discipline with the
others in some way or another.
The body has many different digits and so on, but
they've all got to work together somehow.
Good enough. I agree.